# LITA_CLASS_DOCUMENTATION
This is where I document my first my project while learning data analysis with incubator hub
## LITA_CAPSTONE_PROJECT
### PROJECT TITLE: Unique Hub Sales Performance Analysis
#### Project Overview
##### This project seeks to evaluate and improve the organization’s sales strategies by systematically analyzing sales data. Through the tracking and analysis of key performance indicators (KPIs), we aim to understand patterns, identify strengths and weaknesses, and refine our sales operations. By leveraging the provided data, I will extract insights that will drive targeted strategies for increased revenue, enhanced customer engagement, and optimized resource management. The Sales Performance Analysis will be an invaluable initiative, equipping our sales teams with insights and tools to improve efficiency and drive sustainable growth.

Building on the data and capstone project document previously shared, I will analyze the sales performance of a retail store, using an exploratory approach to uncover key insights such as:

- Top Selling Products
- Regional Performances
- Monthly Sales Trend and By telling a compelling story and building an interactive dashboard Power Bi report: To gather insight, Highlight findings And making business decisions.
  
##### DATA DESCRIPTION:
This dataset includes the following Columns:

- Order Number
- Customer Id
- Products
- Region
- Order Date
- Quantity
- Unit Price
  
#####DASH BOARD REVIEW:
1. Customer Id
products: Items sold in the store
2. Region: The other regional branches of the store ( North, South, East West)
3. Order Date: Date order was palced
4. Quantity: The number of units of the product ordered in each transaction
5. Unit Price: The aquisition cost per unit of the product
6. 
#### Data Sources
##### The primary source of Data used here is the Sales Data provided by the Sales department of the company. The Data given is table having an array of columns like OrderID, Customer Id, Product, Region, OrderDate, Quantity Sold and UnitPrice image

#### Tools used
- Microsoft Excel for Data cleaning transformation and preliminary analysis 
- Structured Query Language(SQL) for Data exctraction and for quering of the 
- Microsoft PowerBI for visualization and Dashboard creation
- Github for portfolio building
#### Data cleaning and preparations
1. Data Cleaning: I removed duplicates and standardized date formats.

2. Pivot Tables: I created pivot tables to analyze sales by product, region, and period,Total Revenue By Product

3. Visualization:I used charts to visualize The most Popular Product [Download here]image

4. Formulas:I Applied Excel functions such as SUMIF, AVERAGE, and VLOOKUP for aggregating data and extracting insights. I also Applied Strcuctured Query Language codes like

#### Exploratory Data Analysis
This involves exploring the the Data to answer some questions which are needful for effective analysis. Questions such as

What is the total sales for each product category.
What is the number of sales transactions in each region.
Which is the highest-selling product by total sales value.
calculate total revenue per product.
calculate monthly sales totals for the current year.
find the top 5 customers by total purchase amount.
calculate the percentage of total sales contributed by each region.
identify products with no sales in the last quarter.
#### Key Findings
- Sales Trends:Shoes generates the most Revenue, most commonly bought by the Southerners. There was little or no known record for the product in the North.  The peak sales period of the products of the company are February and June, with the most sold products being Shoes and Gloves.

- Regional Trends:The total revenue generated by the company acrooss all Regions is $2.1M with 44% generated from the South. Customers are almost evenly spreaded across the four Regions
